Remove foreverPage/63
KENYA INSTITUTE OF CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
A skilled and Ethical Society
PRIMARY SCHOOL CURRICULUM DE
SOCIAL STUDIES
GRADE 4
Page 2 of 63ii
First Published 2017
Revised 2024
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transcribed, in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
ISBN:978-9914-43-036-3
Published and printed by Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development
Page 3 of 63ŝŝŝ
FOREWORD
The Government of Kenya (GoK) is committed to ensuring that policy objectives for Education, Training and Research meet the
aspirations of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, the Kenya Vision 2030, National Curriculum Policy 2018, the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the regional and global conventions to which Kenya is a atory. Towards achieving
the mission of Basic Education, the Ministry of Education (MoE) has successfully and progressively rolled out the implementation
of the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) at Pre-Primary, Primary and Junior School levels.
The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) ed the curriculum and rationalised the number of learning areas in
2024. The  and rationalisation process was informed by several factors, among them, the recommendations of the Presidential
Working Party on Education Reforms (PWPER) and reports of the continuous curriculum monitoring and evaluation activities.
The ed curriculum des build on competencies attained earlier by learners. The des prepare the learner for smooth
transition to the next level. The des will also afford the learner opportunities for developing requisite competencies and enable
them to interact with other people and the environment around them.
The key components of the curriculum des include the National Goals of Education, the essence statement, general and specific
learning outcomes as well as the strands and sub strands. Suggested learning experiences, key inquiry questions, core competencies,
Pertinent and Contemporary Issues (PCIs), values and assessment rubrics are also outlined in the curriculum des.
It is expected that all Government agencies and other stakeholders in Education will use the des to plan for the effective and
efficient implementation of the Competency Based Curriculum.
Thank you.
HON. EZEKIEL OMBAKI MACHOGU, CBS
CABINET SECRETARY,
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Page 4 of 63ŝǀ
PREFACE
The Ministry of Education (MoE) rolled out the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC), nationally in 2019, following a national
convention in 2017 where the Basic Education Curriculum Framework (BECF) was adopted by stakeholders and a national pilot of
the curriculum in the Early Years of Education (EYE) in 2018. According to the UNESCO IBE requirements, a curriculum should be
ed every five years. So, the  of CBC was due from 2023. In view of this, the ed curriculum des will enhance
the implementation of CBC since it corporates the lessons learnt from the implementation of CBC so far.
Consistent periodical  of the curriculum is also critical in the realisation of the Vision and Mission of the on-going curriculum
reforms as enshrined in the Sessional Paper No. I of 2019 whose title is: Towards Realizing Quality, Relevant and Inclusive Education
and Training for Sustainable Development in Kenya. The Sessional Paper explains the shift from a content-focused curriculum to a
focus on producing an engaged, empowered and ethical citizen.
Therefore, the ed curriculum des will facilitate the inculcation of core competencies in CBC, which are identified as:
communication and collaboration, critical thinking and problem solving, creativity and imagination, citizenship, digital literacy,
learning to learn and self-efficacy.
The curriculum des provide suggestions for interactive and differentiated learning experiences linked to the various strands and
sub strands and other aspects of the CBC. The des also outline suggested learning resources and varied assessment techniques. It
is expected that the use of these des will lead to enhanced learning outcomes at various levels, prepare the learner for smooth
transition to subsequent grades and make learning enjoyable.
The MoE requests all stakeholders to keep giving feedback on the curriculum des to inform the  during the next cycle.
Thank you.
DR. BELIO R. KIPSANG, CBS
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY STATE DEPARTMENT FOR
EARLY LEARNING AND BASIC EDUCATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION